Okay. We're gonna go ahead and start with
the second workshop. I'll let everyone find their
seats. Finish up eating. Alright. I'll go ahead
and start. So earlier today, we told you
a lot about React and how it'll help
a lot with your projects once you get
into, like, really complex design. Specifically, it helps
with abstraction and usability. Let's do a quick
recap. The idea of React is that you
can break down your UI into modular components
that you'll be able to reuse and call
with ease without having to write out the
entire thing. Each component takes in a prop
and it manages its own state. And they
have their own, like, various uses and times
where they're helpful. And all the components will
interact with each other through parent child relations.
Props will pass from parent to children, never
the other way around, and you can think
of the structure like a tree. So ultimately,
the idea is that once we have our
components, all we need to do at the
end is just link them together, passing down
the appropriate props. And then at the very
end, all we'll need to do is just
instantiate our app element, and that'll contain our
entire web page. So we did this before
with Facebook, but let's try to break down
another website into its components, following the componentry.
As always, we're gonna start with the root,
and that's the app elements, as always. Within
that, we'll have direct children of the app,
and these are things like nav bar, or
bigger components like an entire feed, or a
trending tab, and more suggestions. Within all these
components, you might have smaller child components, such
as tweets or specific profiles to be put
in the who to follow tab, or maybe
articles in the trending tab as well. And
furthermore, there's components like search bars and little
gadgets on each of the posts as well.
To refresh you on props, props are information
that will be passed from parent to child,
and they're passed in the following manner. Post
element will take in the props name and
text, and you do that by adding the
attributes for name and text, and then setting
those to the appropriate value. And then what
React interprets that as is giving a JavaScript
object to the component that looks like what
I have up there. The other important concept
is state. And these are pieces of information
that are updatable. So if you'll remember, props
can't be changed by the component themselves. They
can only be changed by a parent component.
But with state, you can maintain that within
the component. So this is very helpful for
things like an is liked, as we showed
you a couple times before, or status, or
if there's a user, then maybe you want
to say if it's online or not, things
like that. So let's directly construct the component
tree. As I showed you before, we start
with our app. And then we have some
direct children. And then within those, we have
further sub children. For example, tweets, profiles. If
we started at top level, we have all
the children directly instantiated. Let's follow down the
path of one of these components. So if
you look at the feed component, since we're
not getting any props passed in from app,
we'll directly get the information that we need
and store it as a state. So in
this case, our state is going be tweet
data, and it's going to be loaded from
some API. And we'll touch on that later
in the course. But all you need to
know is that it's maintained by this component
and not one above it or below it.
And we'll use that state setter so that
we can load up the data into this
variable here. Then within our return, we have
to render this. And for that, we're going
to be instantiating tweet components, and these are
subchildren of the feed component. And in those
tweet components, we have props passed down. So
in this case, it's username and maybe some
more stuff like the content of the actual
tweet. So let's see what that looks like
in the child component. Because we passed down
props, we need to let React know that.
So props are passed in, and then we
can easily unpack those props by using dot.
Pause for a moment because that was a
pretty quick review, and you guys just learned
it today. Okay, so final recap. A React
component is basically a bundle of JavaScript logic
and HTML rendering that lets you reuse a
piece of code that you don't want to
keep writing over and over again. A component
can be represented as a piece of HTML
code or a bunch of other React components
stringed together. It can receive information through props
and maintain its own information through state. And
these components all interact with each other using
a tree structure. I've linked the React guide
again, and I encourage you to check it
out because of this stuff is a little
hard to grasp at first. But it's important
that you get it because you're gonna be
constructing your entire project using React. Alright. I'll
pause for any questions before we jump into
the workshop. Okay. Then we'll go ahead and
start. So as we did with the first
workshop, we're gonna be using Versus Code, or
maybe your terminal as well. So I'll give
everyone a moment to get that real quick.
Our end goal for this workshop is going
to be to convert what we had from
the last workshop into a React web page,
and then add a few more components on
here that'll use our concepts of props and
state. Alright. Once everyone has got Versus Code
up, we have a few more setup steps,
which I'll get into right now. So yesterday,
we mentioned a little bit about Node. So
Node is gonna be how we can develop
using JavaScript in our browser. And I think
this was in the setup instructions, but everyone
should have downloaded Node as well as NPM.
So before we move on, we're just going
to make sure that we all have the
right version of Node. And you can do
this easily by typing in node dash v
into your terminal. And anything that's version 18
plus should be good. I think the latest
is version 20. So if you have that,
that's good as well. Alright. Good to move
on? If you're ever getting in trouble, then
always remember to just join the queue and
someone can help you. Once we verify that
we have Node, we're going to open up
the Catbook React folder from last time, open
up the terminal window in Versus Code or
elsewhere, and then run the following commands. So
I already have it up here. But once
you get there, you should get something that
looks like this. And also make sure that
you navigate to the folder correctly. So you
should see, like, Catbook React. Alright. I'll give
everyone like one more minute to get this
done. And once again, if you're having any
trouble, then just join the queue and someone
can help you. Okay. Let's first talk about
the componentry for our Catbook. As always, we're
gonna start with app as the root. And
within that, we're only gonna have two components
today. We'll have the nav bar at the
top and then the profile page, as you
can see. Within the profile, we're also gonna
have this funny component called cat happiness, and
we'll let you know what that does in
a bit. It's basically just gonna be like
this dumb counter that counts how many times
you've clicked the profile picture. Yeah, here are
the components highlighted. There's the cat happiness component.
So you'll notice that the starter code for
today is a little bit more complex than
it was last time. To get everything, like,
situated, let's open up the client folder. So
if you're in Versus Code, on client. And
you're gonna wanna look at source, SRC. And
then within that, there's also components. And this
is gonna have all of our components laid
out. So within this components folder, you'll see
that first we have just the plain app
component. And this is just as simple as
I described before. It's basically just the nav
bar and then the profile. We also have
a folder for the rest of our modules
and pages. So pages is gonna include things
like profile. So they're fully formed pages that
are a little bit more complicated. And then
the components that will instantiate into these pages,
such as navbar or cat happiness. And the
only ones that we're gonna modify today are
profile, navbar, and cat happiness. So you won't
need to worry about the app JSX. Okay.
I mentioned this before, but make sure that
when you're doing styling on React components, use
class name instead of class. And this is
because class is already, like, a special word
in JavaScript, so we have to use class
name instead. Also, good practice is every time
you're creating a class for CSS, you should
put the component name before, like, a more
specific descriptor. And, like, of course, this is
just helpful for, like, reading through your code.
But it's also important because CSS applies to
the entire web page, so you don't want
to, like, mix together styling for components that,
like, have similar functions but are, like, actually,
like, related to different components. So today, instead
of dragging out the file and just, like,
pasting it in your browser, we have a
different command for running your page, and I'll
let you guys all try it out. It's
gonna be npm run dev, and it'll spit
out this thing here. And all you need
to do is copy this, and then you
can go to your browser, and then paste
it in, and then it should have your
website. I'll let everyone try that for a
moment before we move on. By the way,
Oh, and if you're using Versus Code and
you'd like to open up another terminal while
this is running, you can press this button
here, and it'll create another one you can
use. Okay. Sounds like there's still some trouble
with the setup, so I'll stop for like
two minutes before I move on. Oh, oops.
Okay. I there's this typo on the slides.
It should be 5173 and not 5137. Sorry.
Okay. Sounds like we're kind of on track
now. So I'll go ahead and move on.
We have three steps for today's workshop, and
the first one is going be just implement
the nav bar. Before we do that, make
sure you run these commands. I think I
already had you run them, but just in
case, we're starting on the same page. This
nav bar is gonna be pretty similar to
the one that we did in the workshop
yesterday. But today, we're going to have to
do it using the syntax of React. So
remember that when you have a React component,
whatever you render is going be within these
return parentheses. If you remember our old code,
our nav bar was pretty simple. We just
had this nav container here, and then within
that we had a title with some more
styling on it. And it's gonna be a
very similar thing here. And then, of course,
we also need to style our nav bar,
which we also did in the last workshop.
So I'll let you get the hang of
doing that here as well. Also, something that
we didn't mention in the lecture was how
to link CSS style sheets into React components.
You do that by using this import line
here, and then you'll import this path. If
you're ever unsure, like, which path to import,
you can right click onto the CSS file,
copy, like, the relative path, and then or
wait. No. Not the relative path. Copy the
path and then just do that as well.
But if you know that your component is,
like, already in the same directory, then you
can just do something like this. Remember dot
means it's in the same directory. And then
within there, the file is right there. I'll
give everyone, like, two minutes to reimplement the
nav bar in React. You can use whatever
class names that you'd like. Just make sure
to keep it, like, somewhat reasonable. And you
can add whatever styling you'd like in CSS
as well. Okay. I'm gonna go ahead and
start solving it with you guys. So the
first part of this is just putting in
the HTML code into our return. So instead
of null, we're going to have this nav
bar, and then we're gonna have more stuff
inside here for the title. We're also gonna
add styling, so we want to add class
name, not class, and then name it something
that describes what it does well. Again, see
that I'm using the component name before I
put the descriptor? And then for this one
as well, some styling on it. Alright. I'll
let everyone get up to this part for
a minute. Okay. The next part is to
apply the styling. So for that, we're gonna
open up our CSS style sheet for Navbar.
And then depending on the class names that
you used, we'll select and then apply. Oh,
okay. I think I forgot something. Yeah. We'd
like to keep using the same variables that
we defined earlier. So if we open up
our old style CSS, we can just copy
paste that. And that'll allow us to use
the variables that we have before. And feel
free to change the colors if you don't
like our blue. I'll also put styling to
this one. If you still have your, local
host port up, it should auto update and
you can see the nav bar. Give everyone,
like, one more minute to get to this
part, and then move on to the next
step. And again, your, website should look something
like this. Okay. Okay. So that was the
first step. I'll pass it on to Abby
from here. But, in case you fell behind
a little bit, you can always just get
reset dash dash hard and then check out
to step one. Alright. This is about the
halfway point of the workshop. Everyone, stand up.
We're not doing another Wassa challenge. Don't worry.
This is quick. Let me get a little
jogging place going. Gotta get that blood flowing,
otherwise, we're gonna fall asleep. Oh, should not
be displaying. Okay. Good. We're good. You're good.
What is your screen showing as paused? I
don't know. Okay. Let's just try presenting again.
See what happens. Yeah. Can you wait. Can
okay. Sure. That works. Cool. Alright, everyone. We
are going to keep plowing ahead, just like
two more steps in this workshop, and then
we'll take like a more legit bio break.
So the next step is to add the
cat happiness component. So basically, what we had
before was our profile page that did not
have this cat happiness component in the middle.
It just had about me, my favorite type
of cat. But now, we want our component
tree to look like this, where we have
profile and then the cat happiness component within
the profile. And then we also wanna state
that stores our cat happiness. Because if you
notice, if I go to, I'll go to
weblab.is/example in order to see what this should
look like. And then if I go to
my profile page, what we want is this
functionality where I can click click the profile
picture, this little corgi boy, and then my
cat happiness increments, and I can just spam
it all I want. And it's like cookie
clicker, except without the weird functionality to, like,
hire grandmas to make cookies for you. So
this is what we want. And we want
this cat happiness to be stored as a
number, and that will be stored somewhere on
this web page because obviously, it has to
keep track of how many clicks I've made
so far. So that's a good candidate for
React state. But the question that we're asking
now is which component should we store the
cat happiness state in? Because remember that React
state is something that a component maintains. We
store it inside one of our components. So
the question is, which one of these components
should we store the state in? Think about
it for a sec, turn and talk to
someone nearby you, which component you think it
should be. Alright, I'm gonna pull us back
together. Raise your hand if you think it
should be stored in app. Okay. Raise your
hand if you think it should be stored
in nav bar. Now raise your hand if
you think it should be stored in profile.
Okay. Some hands. Raise your hand if you
think it should be stored in cat happiness.
Also some hands. Okay. So it's probably either
profile or cat happiness. The correct answer to
this is profile. So we don't wanna store
it inside that little box for the cat
happiness, and why is that? Well, if we
wanna update the cat happiness when we click
this button, this cat happiness component is just
this little box here. This has no way
of knowing when I've clicked the profile picture.
So the only component that will be able
to know when I've clicked this profile picture
is the component that the profile picture is
in. That's profile. And so only profile will
be able to, respond to when I click
this image. And then what we can do
is we can take that state that's stored
in profile and pass it down into our
cat happiness component as a prop. That way,
cat happiness can display the number of the
state that we stored in profile. Any questions
on this? Yeah. What's up? In that case,
we would probably just pull the state up
into whatever highest level component we need it
to be in. So we might pull the
state into app and then pass the function
into navbar. Okay. So like I mentioned earlier,
profile, this component, is going to have no
props and a state of cat happiness. And
then that cat happiness state is going to
be passed down into the cat happiness component,
that's this little box here that just displays
that number as a prop. And that way,
cat happiness, the box component, can display that
number. So how do we add state to
a component? We looked at the syntax earlier,
but we'll review it. We use the syntax
const and then whatever the state we want
to be, in this case, cat happiness, and
then a setter function for it is equal
to use state. And then inside the use
state, the parentheses, we put the default value.
Later on, we'll talk about a little bit
more about what use state is and why
we wanna do this as opposed to just
using a regular variable. But for now, just
remember that this is the syntax that we
use. Alright. So let's get on the same
page for step one. Just a quick note,
make sure that whenever you're doing these workshop
steps, you save or close out of any
unsaved files. If your tabs in Versus Code
look like this with a little white dot
in it, that means you have changes that
are unsaved. And if you try and git
reset and git checkout when you have those
unsaved changes, git will be confused and not
know what to do, and you'll get errors.
So just make sure that you save or
close out of your unsaved files so that
you can totally flush out your changes when
you do git reset dash dash hard. Alright.
So I'll give you a minute to run
those commands and I will get into my
Kappa React. Okay. So I'm in my Versus
code. I'm on w one step one, and
then in another terminal, I just use we
just use this button to open up a
split screen terminal, or this one to just
create a new window of our terminals in
Versus Code. And then here, in another terminal,
I'm going to be running npm run dev.
Raise your hand if you need more time
to execute these commands and get caught up.
Cool. We'll move along then. So your next
task is to add the cat happiness component.
And so what we need to do is
we need to add a state for cat
happiness to our profile. Actually, wait. Before before
I get into that, don't worry about this
slide for now. Just take one second. Let's
open up, the files that we're going to
be working in. So if we go into
the client folder, that just means our front
end, and we go into source, because it's
our source code, and then components, because these
are React components, then if we open up
the modules and pages folders, in the modules,
we'll see cat happiness dot j s x,
which we'll be working in. And then in
the pages folder, we'll see profile dot j
s x. And that's just because profile is
an entire page, whereas cat happiness is just
a small subcomponent of a page. So take
a second, open up both of those files,
and take a minute to read over both
of the files and figure out, like, what
we have right now. Before we're don't worry
about what we're gonna add. Just look and
figure out what what is being stored in
these files. And why don't you turn and
talk to someone next to you? Show them
either profile or cat happiness, and just tell
them what we have in the file so
far before we're adding anything. Alright. Hearing some
good conversations, but I'm gonna pull us back.
So just to quickly recap, what we have
right now in our profile page is this
is a React component and inside, here we
have the container for our avatar. That's our
little corgi boy. And then here's our name
and then the horizontal line. And then here,
we have our flexbox that contains all of
the things that happen under the horizontal line,
namely the about me section, and then what
will be our cat happiness component, but isn't
yet, and then the section that says my
favorite type of cat. And then inside the
cat happiness component right now, we have basically
nothing. It's just a bunch of containers. Any
questions on the code? Okay. So next up,
we're going to add cat happiness. So we
wanna add the cat happiness state to profile
dot j s, and then we want to
import the cat happiness component into profile dot
j s so that we can use it.
And we're going to add the cat happiness
component right here in our profile dot j
s. And then, finally, inside the cat happiness
if you have extra time, inside the cat
happiness file, then we'll, take in a cat
happiness prop. Yes. So the actually, I'll give
I'll give you a minute just to, like,
parse what we're doing. So basically, what we're
doing in this step is if we have
our whole profile page And then within it,
we have, you know, our profile, etcetera. And
then within it, we have this component that's
just the cat happiness button. And this is
cat happiness. That's our component. Then remember that
we said earlier that we want profile to
store the state of cat happiness, cat happiness
being the number that we wanna display here.
So that means that profile is going to
need to store some kind of cat happiness
state. But then in order for the cat
happiness component to render it, we need to
pass that state down into the cat happiness
component as a prop. And so that's what
we're going to do in this step. And
additionally, we also need to add the cat
happiness component to the profile. Raise your hand
if you're confused on what we're doing in
this step. Okay. In that case, let's get
coding. I will give you guys a few
minutes to attempt this and feel free to
flag down one of the staff if you
have any questions. Hold up a finger or
two or three or four for how many
more minutes you think you need on this.
Alright. Cool. I will give another two to
three minutes, maybe three minutes. Yeah. Alright. Let's
do another time check. Give me a finger
or two or three for how many more
minutes you think you need. Okay. I will
give, like, one more minute, and then we'll
pull back together. Alright. For the sake of
time, I'm gonna have to pull us back
together, but I hear some really great chatter,
really great digesting it. Don't worry if you
don't get it right away. You'll have plenty
of opportunities to practice this and by the
end of WebLab, you will be a pro.
Alright. So first thing that I'm going to
do is add the cat happiness component here.
This is a little bit out of order
from the slide, but generally, if I'm if
I have a component inside of another component,
I'm just gonna add it and see what
happens. So right now, I'm gonna add inside
of this div the oh, wait. I think
I need to put another sub container div
in here so that I can make sure
that this cat happiness component fills in its
own little section of the profile page. I'm
gonna stick another div in here and then
put the cat happiness component inside of it.
So this is what I would do if
I just passed in a component normally. And
then let's see what I and this is
what I changed. So let's see what happens
when I run this. I'm just gonna make
this small on the side. Oh, wait. This
is the example. My bad. I was like,
why is it working? It's not supposed to
be working. Okay. Notice I get this white
screen. If I get this white screen, that
means there's an error. What you should do
when you get this is open up the
console, which you can do by right clicking,
going to inspect, and then opening up the
JavaScript console. And then here, you'll typically see
more detailed error messages on what exactly went
wrong. So here, notice, I get this f
error here, uncaught reference error, cat happiness is
not defined at profile, which means that it
doesn't know what cat happiness is. That means
I forgot to import it. So I'm gonna
import the cat happiness state so my profile
knows what to do with it. So here
at the top, I'm going to import cat
happiness from, and then here I need to
put the file path of file that I'm
getting this component from. And in this case,
the current location that I'm at, that profile
dot j s x is in, is inside
pages. This is but the cat happiness component
is inside modules, which is a different folder.
So I need to in order to get
the file path of cat happiness relative to
profile, I need to use dot dot to
step back one directory into the components directory.
And then from there, I can go into
modules, so slash modules. And from there, I
can get the cat happiness component. And so
now, after importing cat happiness from one step
back into modules folder, cat happiness dot j
s x, Then, hopefully, if I reload this
page, it is still sad at me. Why
is it still sad at me? Cat happiness.
Did I import this wrong? Cat happiness is
not defined. Wait. I actually have no idea
what I did wrong here. Here, give me
a sec. Let me check the solution. Wait,
that's literally right. What am I doing? Oh,
really? No. Wait. I'm pretty sure you can
put it. Okay. You know what? I'm going
to just keep coding for the sake of
education and then figure out what the heck
I did wrong there in a bit. Okay.
So next up, after we added the cat
happiness component, we are going to add a
state to hold the number of the cat
happiness. So cat happiness with a capital c,
we're using as the component, and then we're
going to define a state for the similar
thing. So we're going to do const, and
then cat happiness, and then set cat happiness
is equal to use state. And then we'll
set our default value to be zero because
we have zero cat happiness to start. And
then we'll get the same kind of error
if we just have this as is. So
we need to also import use state from
React. And so the syntax for this is
we need to add brackets and then import
use state. So I added the use state
import here and then created a state here.
Any questions on this syntax for React state?
Alright. Then we're gonna actually use that state
to pass down into cat happiness, so cat
happiness component can display it. And so I'm
gonna pass it into the cat happiness component
as a prop. So here, I have my
cat happiness component. I'm gonna pass in the
cat happiness prop is equal to the value,
and then here, we're going to put our
cat happiness state. Now I apologize for the
kind of bad naming where everything is named
cat happiness, but basically, this cat happiness is
our component. And then we have a prop
whose the the prop name is cat happiness,
and then we're setting that equal to and
then notice here that we have to include
the curly braces because we're entering a JavaScript
environment. So we're inserting JavaScript into our HTML
using these curly braces. And then here, we
can put the JavaScript variable, also known as
our react state, cat happiness. So we'll take
the cat happiness number from our react state,
feed it into the HTML, and then that's
the prop value for the cat happiness prop
for our cat happiness component. Well, the number
of times I've seen cat happiness today. Any
questions on this code? Okay. So just to
summarize, all of the changes that I made
to this code, I added the cat happiness
component and passed in our state as a
prop. I added this state, and then I
imported all the necessary things up above. I'll
give you a sec just to copy it
down if you need. Are you not? I'm
just gonna keep going. And then all we
need to do now is we need to
actually display the prop, like, receive the prop
in the cat happiness component itself. Because we're
passing it in here from profile to cat
happiness. We're not doing anything with it right
now. So I'll open up our cat happiness
component here. And here, in order to receive
props, we just put the props here as
an input to our function, and then we'll
display the count we'll display the prop. So
here, again, we're using curly braces because we're
putting in JavaScript thing that is our props
dot cat happiness. And this is a JavaScript
expression, so we need to put it inside
curly braces in order for it to be
inserted into the HTML. So this is how
we pass a prop down on the left
side, and then on the right side, you
see, as a child component, we're receiving that
prop. Notice here that earlier we talked about
React components being literally just a function. So
we have this React component that's a function
called cat happiness that takes in props as
input and spits out the corresponding HTML for
those props. Or, like, for the component, I
guess. Alright. Next, we are going to move
on to the next step. And so right
now, if we display this, which let me
see if I don't have a bug and
can show you guys. No. I have the
same bug. That's tragic. Maybe I misspelled something.
Oh, I just forgot to save my files.
I'm trolling, guys. Sorry. It works. Don't worry,
my code works. So here, right now, it's
zero, but obviously, if we click this, nothing
happens. So that's what we're going to do
next. We're gonna implement the functionality so when
we click our profile page, the cat happiness
increments. That's pretty straightforward to do. Okay. Now
we're gonna get caught up, so git reset
hard and git checkout to the next step.
I'll give you a second to do that.
Alright. Let's move on. Hey, Daniel. We have
a question. Oh, never mind. Maybe we're good.
Okay. So next up for this step, why
don't you turn and talk to someone actually,
wait, no. I take that back. We're gonna
change the cat happiness when I click on
our profile picture. And so what we're going
to do for this is we're gonna define
a function inside of our profile component called
increment cat happiness. And that function, increment cat
happiness, is just going to take our cat
happiness and add one. Pretty simple. So we're
gonna write that, and then we're also going
to implement the code to call that function
any time we click the profile picture. And
so the way we're going to do this
is that in HTML, any div has an
on click attribute. And that attribute takes in
a function such that when you click on
that div in the HTML, that function will
be called. And so we want to run
that, like, input the increment cat happiness function
to the on click of our div. But
before we get into that, we're going to
think about how we might implement this. So
these are all partial implementations of this step.
And I'll give you a minute to read
the code and think about which ones are
valid ways of implementing this. Which ones will
work and which ones won't. Alright. Now, talk
to someone next to you. What do you
think? And we're assuming here that increment cat
happiness is just what I described earlier, a
function that increases the cat happiness by one.
Alright, I'll pull everyone back together. Let's take
a poll. Open hands if you think a
works, close hands if you think it doesn't.
Open hands, close okay. Okay. We're getting a
mix. How about for b? Open hands if
you think it works, close hands if it
doesn't. Okay. Mostly open hands. Now, c? Open
hands for yes, close hands for no doesn't
work? Alright. Also mostly open hands. D, open
hands if it works, closed hands if it
doesn't. Okay. A lot of closed hands, that's
good. The correct answer is that a, b,
and c all work, d does not. D
does not work because we are calling the
increment cat happiness function and passing whatever that
function returns into the on click, which is
not good because increment cat happiness probably returns,
like, undefined or something. And so what we're
passing to the on click is useless. But
all of these, a b and c, all
work. Now if you notice, a here is
a function that takes in nothing, and what
it does inside the function is just call
increment cat happiness. So it's literally exactly the
same as c, but just a lot more
verbose code. So c is a much cleaner
way of writing what you might wanna do
in a. And then b is just, rather
than going through the increment cat happiness method,
we're just directly using the react state setter
to set the cat happiness. Okay, so without
further ado, I'm gonna have you guys implement
this. So implement the increment cat happiness method
and then call that method whenever the profile
picture's clicked. I'll give you, like, two minutes
to attempt this. We'll be walking around if
you have any questions. Alright, show of fingers
how many remotis people need? Alright. Cool. I
am going to get started then. Alright. It
seems like people are nearing on being done,
if not done already. So I'm going to
pull us back together and implement this. So
we're not gonna need cat happiness right We're
just gonna be in profile dot j s
x. And so here, we have our function,
increment cat happiness. All we wanna do is
call the set cat happiness method. And then
what do we wanna set it to? Well,
we wanna set it to the old cat
happiness plus one. So that's what we're gonna
do. So this is how we increment our
cat happiness function. And then in order to
make this function called, any time we click
on our profile picture, we're going to go
to this div here, profile avatar container, and
we're gonna give it an on click attribute.
And remember, we're using these curly braces to
enter a JavaScript, little mini to evaluate a
JavaScript expression. And so here, we're going to
put in the function increment cat happiness. So
here is what I changed, these two lines.
And then if we run this, and we
click on our profile picture, and our cat
happiness increments. Yay. It works. Any questions on
this code? Alright. We're all set then. So
if you wanna check out the finished app
and you weren't able to get there, feel
free to git checkout w one complete. But
otherwise, I'm gonna skip this recap for the
sake of time. And after this, after a
quick break, we're going to talk a little
bit more about the React life cycle and
hooks. Okay. Real quick, just open up the
feedback form, and you can give Sanve and
I feedback on the workshop.